{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SimSun;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2512;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keep\keepn\sb140\sa200\qc\cf1\highlight0\lang9\ul\b\f0\fs32 SYNOPSIS\ulnone\b0\fs20\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa140\highlight0\ulnone\b\fs28 Team Members:-\highlight0\ul\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi240\sa140\tx732\ulnone\b0\fs24 Yallutai Goral (+91-8197615183)\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Prajakta Parit (+91-9108794955)\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Pratiksha Chougule (+91-9008196479)\par
\pard\sa140\tx732\b\fs17\par
\par
\par
\pard\sa140\qc\tx732\highlight0 Guide\highlight0 :-\par
\pard\keep\keepn\fi500\sa140\b0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa140\ul\b\fs28 Proiect Name and Category:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi240\sa140\qj\tx732\highlight0\ulnone\fs24 Project Name\b0\fs20 :-  \highlight0\fs24 Plant Disease And Pests Detection.\par
\highlight0\b{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Category\lang1033\b0\f1 :\lang9\f0 - Machine \highlight0 Learning.\par
\pard\li240\sa140\qj\tx732\fs17\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa140\tx259\ul\b\fs28 Statement about the problem:-\par
\pard\fi420\li400\sa140\ulnone\b0\fs24 Agriculture is one field which has a high impact on life and economic status of human beings. Improper management leads to loss in agricultural products. Diseases are detrimental to the plants health which in turn affects its growth. To ensure minimal loss to the cultivated crop, it is crucial to supervise its growth.\cf0\highlight0 There are a numerous of problems that the agriculture field faces such as inefficient farming strategies and techniques, inadequate use of compost, manures and fertilizers, insufficient water supply, various diseases attack on plants and so on. Diseases are exceedingly harmful to the well-being of plants which in turn influence its growth. The attack of these numerous types of diseases on plants results in a huge loss in the yield performance in terms of quality as well as quantity\cf1\highlight0 .\fs17\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa140\tx259\ul\b\fs28 Introduction:-\par
\pard\fi500\li400\sa140\ulnone\b0\fs24 Agriculture is a sector which has a huge impact on life and economic stature of humans. Agriculture proves to be a primary source of livelihood, for about 58% of Indias population. India ranks second globally in terms of farm yields. It was reported in the year 2018 that agriculture opened the doors of employment for more than 50% of the employees, hence contributing to 18-20% to country's GDP. India has thus proven to be one of the leading nations in term of agricultural yield and productivity. With this majority of population rely on agriculture, it is very crucial to recognize the problems faced in this sector.\par
\highlight0 The recent development in technology, and this evolution has made it feasible and possible thus made its way for plant disease detection and identification and contribute to provide better treatment for plants in case of any plant having diseased conditions. The proposed system of recognition of plant leaf diseases focuses on 14 varieties of plants which include apple, blueberry, cherry, corn, grape, orange, peach, pepper, potato, raspberry, soybean, squash, strawberry and tomato. This system is built on concepts of Deep Learning- Convolutional neural networks (CNN) is posted for formation of a statistical model that is executed on the input image and transforms the input to classify output tags.\highlight0\par
\pard\fi500\li400\sa820 Plants affected by diseases add up to for about 20-30% of the entire crop deprivation. Thus, recognizing diseases in plant becomes very crucial in order to avoid any massive losses in production, performance and in the amount of the agricultural outcome. Since manual recognition is extremely time consuming and more prone to inaccuracy, leading to wrong treatment. \par
\pard\keep\keepn\sa160\fs20\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa160\ul\b\fs28 Objectives And Scope:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi300\sa160\tx583\highlight0\ulnone\fs24 Objective:-\highlight0\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-284\li1136\sa160\tx583\ulnone\b0 Speed and Accuracy is the main objective of the diseases detection,\highlight0 Image processing provides very fast and accurate result which help in diseases management.\highlight0\par
\highlight0{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}The implementation of proper techniques to identify healthy and diseased leaves helps in controlling crop loss and increasing productivity.\highlight0\par
\pard\fi400\sa160\sl252\slmult0\tx1104\fs17\par
\pard\fi400\sa160\sl252\slmult0\tx1104\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi300\sa160\tx583\highlight0\ulnone\b\fs28 Scope:-\highlight0\ul\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-260\li1080\sa160\sl252\slmult0\tx1097\ulnone\b0\fs24 This help farmers to early treatment technique while substantially reducing economic loss. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It is useful in plant nursery for detecting purpose. \par
\pard\fi400\sa160\sl252\slmult0\tx1097\fs17\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa140\tx198\ul\b\fs28 Existing System:-\par
\pard\fi420\li400\sa140\qj\ulnone\b0\fs24 The automated identification of plant diseases based on plant leaves is a major landmark in the field of agriculture. Moreover, the early and timely identification of plant diseases positively impacts crop yield and quality . Due to the cultivation of a large number of crop products, even an agriculturist and pathologist may often fail to identify the diseases in plants by visualizing disease-affected leaves. However, in the rural areas of developing countries, visual observation is still the primary approach of disease identification. It also requires continuous monitoring by experts. In remote areas, farmers may need to travel far to consult an expert, which is time-consuming and expensive. Automated computational systems for the detection and diagnosis of plant diseases assist farmers and agronomists with their high throughput and precision.\par
\fs17\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li760\sa140\qj\ulnone\b\fs28 Disadvantages:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1360\sa200\tx945\ulnone\b0\fs24 Less accurate.\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1360\sa200\qj\tx945 Time consuming.\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1360\sa200\qj  Less efficient.\par
\pard\fi640\sa200\qj\fs17\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\keep\keepn\fi-360\li360\sa200\tx518\ul\b\fs28 Proposed System:-\par
\pard\fi20\li400\sa140\qj\ulnone\b0\fs24 On the yearly basis the agriculture field witnesses major reduction in productivity performance and crop losses since farmers are unable to identify the disease type in the initial stages. The farmers naked eye observations of leaves are often not capable of identifying the disease type and often need an expert to make predictions.\par
\pard\fi20\li400\sa140\sl283\slmult0\qj These losses have a major impact on the production and thus on the lives of farmers. The proposed model designed and developed an automated system which is used for identification of plant diseases that helps to determine if the plant is infected by a disease or not.The following are the steps in which the process is carried out:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1000\sa140\sl283\slmult0\qj\tx945 Acquiring of the plant image dataset 14 different varieties of plant images containing 38 different classes of plant diseases.\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1000\sa140\qj\tx945 Pre-processing of the image in different convolutional layers.\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}Classification of plant diseases stating if the given plant leaf image is diseased or healthy.\highlight0\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}Identify the type of diseases based on image processng\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}To detect unhealthy region of plant leaves.\highlight0\par
\highlight0{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}To quantify affected area by diseases.\highlight0\par
\highlight0{\pntext\f0 vii.\tab}Image processing imporves the image data that suppress undesired distortions.\highlight0\par
\pard\fi400\sa140\sl283\slmult0\qj\tx945\fs17\par
\pard\sa180\fs20\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sa180\highlight0\ul\b\fs28 Advantages:-\highlight0\ulnone\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1048\sa180\ulnone\b0\fs24 More accurate.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Less time consuming.\highlight0\par
\pard\sl360\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\sa426\sl1\slmult0\par
\pard\sl1\slmult0\par
\par
\pard\sa1020\highlight0\fs17\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sa1020\ulnone\b\fs28 Hardware and Software Requirement\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li760\sa180 Hardware Requirements:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi840\sa180\qj\tx1180\ulnone\b0\fs24 Min 4GB RAM or more.\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi840\sa180\qj\tx1188 Min 2.2 GHZ processor.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Min 50 GB free space.\par
\pard\sa160\fs17\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li760\sa160\ulnone\b\fs28 Software Requirements:-\par
\pard{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1120\sa160\ulnone\b0\fs24 Python 3.9\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Ananconda/Jupyter\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Operating System:- Windows.\par
\pard\li760\sa160\fs17\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-694\li1120\sa160\highlight0\ulnone\b\fs28 Methodology\ulnone :-\highlight0\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-694\li1480\sa160\fs24 Spiral Model. \fs17\par
\pard\li786\sa160\par
\fs24\par
\fs17\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-694\li1120\sa160\ulnone\b\fs28 Reference\ulnone :-\par
\pard\fi400\sa180\qj\tx1188\b0\fs17\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1120\sa180\qj\tx1188\cf0\highlight0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sumanismcse/Plant-Disease-Identification-using-CNN"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://github.com/sumanismcse/Plant-Disease-Identification-using-CNN}}}\cf1\highlight0\f0\fs24 . \par
\cf0\highlight0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}https://www.researchgate.net/publication/327065422_Plant_Disease_Detection_Using_Machine_Learnings"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://www.researchgate.net/publication/327065422_Plant_Disease_Detection_Using_Machine_Learnings}}}\cf1\highlight0\f0\fs24  . \highlight0\par
}
 